{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 ACaslonPro-Regular;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red69\green60\blue204;
\red56\green110\blue255;\red20\green160\blue194;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf2 From: "Bacon, Nicholas A." <Nicholas.Bacon@trincoll.edu>\
Subject: RE: Hartford historical metropolitan census definitions and boundaries, 1950 to 1999\
Date: May 2, 2011 at 4:30:32 PM EDT\
To: "Dougherty, Jack A." <John.Dougherty@trincoll.edu>\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs26 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Thanks Jack! It would be great if they agreed to do the cleanup, but I'm happy to do what needs to be done to finish things up.\
\
Thanks again,\
Nick \
\
Nick Bacon\
Research Associate\
Center for Urban and Global Studies (CUGS)\
Trinity College\
300 Summit Street\
Hartford, CT 06106\
Office- (860) 297-5175\
Cell- (860)922-5833\
Fax- (860)-297-5172\
Email- nicholas.bacon@trincoll.edu\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160

\f3\fs32 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\b\fs26 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 From:
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  Dougherty, Jack A.\

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Sent:
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  Monday, May 02, 2011 1:45 PM\

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 To:
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  Bacon, Nicholas A.\

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Subject:
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  Fwd: Hartford historical metropolitan census definitions and boundaries, 1950 to 1999\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f3\fs32 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
Nick,\
\
Today I spoke with Bill Miller (Michael Howser's colleague at MAGIC) about your work, which he briefly reviewed with me on the phone. He's agrees that it's important work, and will talk further with Michael about next steps for cleaning it up and adding relevant metadata, before adding it to their public archive (with credit to you). I'm trying to persuade them to do the cleanup, since it would be easier than explaining all of the necessary steps to you.\'a0\
\
Sorry for the delay! Stay tuned.\
\
Jack\
\
Begin forwarded message:\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 To: 
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Bill Miller <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:bill.miller@uconn.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 bill.miller@uconn.edu}}>
\f3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f1\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Subject: Fwd: Hartford historical metropolitan census definitions and boundaries, 1950 to 1999
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f3 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
Dear Bill,\
\
Nick Bacon, a former student of mine from Trinity, has created several shapefiles that may interest MAGIC and could be added to the On The Line project. Would you please look at the files and let me know what Nick (or MAGIC staff) can do to add the appropriate metadata and bring them up to your standards for public dissemination?\
\
Together, the shapefiles show how the Census Bureau's definition of "metropolitan Hartford" changed from 1950 (red line) to 1999 (blue line), as illustrated in the screenshot below.\
\
Nick began with a detailed Census Bureau list of definitions that I gave him (see attached Word file, with source URL at the top.)\'a0\
\
Next, Nick created shapefiles for Hartford (and other MSAs in central CT). I have placed these in a zipped folder in a public dropbox here:\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dl.dropbox.com/u/14023305/historicalMSA_NickBacon.zip"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 http://dl.dropbox.com/u/14023305/historicalMSA_NickBacon.zip}}\
\
See Nick's comments below with details about his files.\
\
Nick created these files with the understanding that we may distribute them via MAGIC, with credit to him.\
\
I'll phone you to see what you think needs to be done next. There may be additional definitions during the 2000s.\
\
thanks\
Jack\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f4\fs26 \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Hey Jack,
\f5\fs30 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f4\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'a0
\f5\fs30 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f4\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 First, I\'92ve put the historic MSA data in tcdata/projects/bacon/data/region. There are some slight differences in naming convention, but it\'92s pretty organized. There\'92s no metadata, but it\'92s ready for your own personal use as far as I know. If you do notice any problems, let me know or feel free to fix it yourself. Also, If you have any suggestions on naming the files, I\'92m open to it. There are also some old dissolve files in there which obviously won\'92t be going to MAGIC. The only big thing I have to do is put in the metadata. Since there are so many files, this is a pretty daunting task. So I wanted to know if you had any suggestions of how to do it before I take on the task? For instance, do you think it\'92s necessary to name the towns (I sometimes see that in metadata)? Should I point to the data source from which I constructed these shapefiles (the MAGIC CT town outlines data). And, how do you want to be listed?
\f5\fs30 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f4\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'a0
\f5\fs30 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f4\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'a0
\f5\fs30 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f4\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Thanks either way,
\f5\fs30 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f4\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Nick
\f5\fs30 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f4\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \'a0
\f5\fs30 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f4\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Nick Bacon
\f5\fs30 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \

\f4\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Research Associate\
Center for Urban and Global Studies (CUGS)\
Trinity College\
300 Summit Street\
Hartford, CT 06106\
Office- (860) 297-5175\
Cell- (860)922-5833\
Fax- (860)-297-5172\
Email-\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:nicholas.bacon@trincoll.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc7 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec7 nicholas.bacon@trincoll.edu}}
\f5\fs30 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f3\fs32 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 \
Begin forwarded message:\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 From: 
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Michael Howser <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:michael.howser@uconn.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 michael.howser@uconn.edu}}>\

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Date: 
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 October 12, 2010 10:13:27 PM EDT\

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 To: 
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 "Bacon, Nicholas A." <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:Nicholas.Bacon@trincoll.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Nicholas.Bacon@trincoll.edu}}>\

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Cc: 
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 "Dougherty, Jack A." <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:John.Dougherty@trincoll.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 John.Dougherty@trincoll.edu}}>\

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Subject: RE: Hartford historical MSA data
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f3 \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \
Nick,\
\
This data would be a great addition to MAGIC's offerings for public use. Let me know if you should need any support from us here at MAGIC just let me know.\
\
Cheers,\
\'a0\
Michael\
-- \
Michael R. Howser\
Undergraduate Education & GIS Librarian\
Map and Geographic Information Center - MAGIC\
University of Connecticut Libraries\
369 Fairfield Way - Unit 2005M\
Storrs, Connecticut 06269\
Telephone: (860) 486-4589\
Fax: (860) 486-6100\
E-mail: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:michael.howser@uconn.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 michael.howser@uconn.edu}}\
IM: uconnmhowser (AOL)\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://magic.lib.uconn.edu/"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 http://magic.lib.uconn.edu}} <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://magic.lib.uconn.edu/"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 http://magic.lib.uconn.edu/}}> \
\
-----Original Message-----\
From: Dougherty, Jack A. [mailto:John.Dougherty@trincoll.edu] \
Sent: Tuesday, October 12, 2010 2:32 PM\
To: Bacon, Nicholas A.\
Cc: Michael Howser\
Subject: Hartford historical MSA data\
\
Nick,\
\
Enjoyed your GIS presentation at Trinity today. As we discussed, I'm sharing this description of Hartford historical MSA data with the understanding that you will share any GIS shapefiles you create from it with MAGIC, to be shared with the public. I'm cc:ing Michael Howser to keep him in the loop.\
\
-Jack\
}